---
id: 1
title: Address the entire enrollment process, from start to finish

---

## Our services should help people complete every action required to successfully enroll — not just submit an intake application.

People apply for health coverage, food assistance, and other temporary assistance programs in times of need, often after a change in their financial situation or family health. That change represents the beginning of their journey through our E&E systems.  Our systems should support residents before they decide to apply, and throughout every interaction required to successfully enroll — a process that often spans days or weeks.  Developing an understanding of the entire “client journey” is critical.

### Guidelines

1. Invest in understanding the applicant journey that begins at the moment their needs arise.
2. Conduct user research to map the journey your clients take through your system.
3. Design your digital service to reflect the key phases of eligibility determination and enrollment.

### Application Design Checklist
- Measure “conversion” or “completion” rates of key transactions like application submission, interviews, and verification submission.
- Use web analytics to understand the devices and technology your applicants rely on.
- Provide easy to find, easy to understand information about different assistance programs.
- Make it easy to complete common tasks that follow an initial application via your digital service, whether that be scheduling an interview or submitting verification documents.
- Use more frequent, informal outbound communication to help clients stay on track, and provide on-ramps to resolving any problems that may arise.

### Remember
Digital services present an opportunity for us to provide residents with comfortable, comprehensive experience at low-cost. Mobile phones makes it possible to design your service to be the first place residents turn when they need to take action or obtain information at every step of the process.