---
id: 2
title: Design for mobile first
---

## Mobile enrollment means designing your digital service to work best with mobile web, SMS and built-in cameras.

The number of Americans who own smartphones continues to rise sharply, surpassing 75% in 2016. For many of the people we serve, mobile phones represent the only reliable access to the internet. According to Pew Research, a full 21% of people earning under $30,000 were dependent on their smartphone for access last year. Basic cell phone ownership is near 95%.

Internet connected mobile phones enables us to support residents throughout the entire enrollment process, across multiple channels. Residents can complete forms, take phone calls, communicate via email and SMS, and share photos of verification documents and self-attestations. This approach also enables us to help residents understand where they are in the process, giving them timely information about outstanding requirements, and providing simple ways to complete what is required of them.

Designing for mobile first has many implications. Mobile phones enable us to stay connected to clients throughout the enrollment process, across many different channels. They also require us to present information differently, consider the amount of data our services use, and address a new variety of accessibility considerations.

### Guidelines
1. Recognize that our clients expectations are informed by an always-on mode of instant communication, asynchronous information sharing, and document submission.
2. Design mobile-responsive websites, not unique mobile apps.
3. Test designs with residents on mobile devices early and regularly in your design process — specifically with the most basic smart phones. Phones available through the Lifeline program represent a good sample of basic internet-enabled phones.



### Application Design Checklist
- Practice mobile-first responsive design: begin your design process by designing and testing all screens for mobile layout, and then expand to fit desktop screens.
- Collect data on which devices clients use to access your service, and ensure that usability testing and quality assurance includes testing on the majority of those devices.
- Take advantage of the fact that most phones have a camera: our web applications should empower residents to take photos of documents  and upload them directly.
- Use SMS for notices and follow ups, for effective and low-cost contact with the client.
- Use SMS to point to communications on other channels like email or post mail for critical or time-sensitive information.

### Remember
Smartphone ownership is mature and rising rapidly, but designing for mobile requires many considerations. Connections can be poor, and the data available can be limited. Not everyone will always use the same mobile devices (especially among those without a stable address). Avoid device specific mobile apps.


