---
id: 3
title: Invest in the initial experience
---

## The most effective E&E systems consider the experience of residents beginning with their very first actions.

Create a welcoming and easily accessible front door to ensure applicants get started in the right place with the right information. In fact, the design of our systems impacts applicants before they even arrive. Developing relevant, easily discovered content that reflects the needs and concerns of applicants has a disproportionate impact on the client’s overall experience and likelihood of success.

Guidelines
1. Support community based organizations, institutions, and individuals to serve as sources of referrals to your system.
2. Use web analytics to understand the sources of  visitors, whether that CBOs or search engines, to your system.
3. Develop relevant, accessible content that addresses common concerns or consideration that applicants arrive with.
4. Adopt best practices of search engine optimization to ensure your system is easily discoverable.


### Key Questions
- Give wary residents a visual indication of credibility and official status — use logos, seals, or other official insignia.
- Give residents a way to see themselves in your design — with photos of real people or friendly icons.  Avoid stock photography.
- Make relevant information like eligibility requirements and available resources readily accessible, without adding extra steps to the process.
- Be easily discoverable: domain names and URLs should be search engine-friendly.
- Use best practices of search engine optimization to guide your content architecture and URL patterns, to position yourself as a credible and accessible source of information.


### Remember
Failing to provide easy-to-find, relevant information can open residents to risk of receiving misleading material from others, or worse, exposing their personal information to scams.

