---
play_number: 4
title: Let usability and accessibility guide your design
---

## Design interfaces for easy use among people with a wide range of abilities.

We must accommodate a diversity of physical abilities and comfort with technology. Fortunately, mobile and web usability and accessibility is a well-understood and well-documented practice. Make it a priority that your digital service meets accessibility standards across a range of common devices, browsers, and assistive technologies.

### Guidelines
1. Audit your online application’s accessibility with standards like a11y.
2. Limit the number of interactions on a single page as much as possible.
3. Default to screen taps and selections whenever possible. Typing on phone interfaces can be error-prone and counterintuitive — taps are the easiest mobile interaction.


### Application Design Checklist
- Use large tap targets, wide buttons and chunky dropdown inputs so that people with all types of fingers and motor skills can interact easily.
- Remember that different types of inputs will trigger different types of keyboards on different devices — and that dates in particular can be tricky.
- When presenting different types of information, differentiate them visually in two ways to ensure that people with limited abilities to read or see color perceive the change.
- Create a clear visual hierarchy of information, with easy to spot titles and sections. 
Expect your font size to be increased by residents.


### Remember
Accessibility is not an afterthought or nice-to-have.  Failing to design an accessible interface early in the process will mean cutting out support to large percentage of residents and thus refactoring work later in the process. 
