---
play_number: 5
title: Do the hard work to help people provide the right information
---

## Collecting accurate information means working diligently to make complex questions feel straightforward.

Determining eligibility requires gathering a significant amount of nuanced information about applicants and their households.  Because answering questions is the core activity of our digital service, our design should make it possible for residents to share information easily and accurately.  Each question should be evaluated for ease of interpretation, and its effect on the resident’s overall ability to complete the enrollment process. This isn’t complicated — it's just hard.

### Guidelines
1. Remove as much onus on the resident as possible by being exceptionally clear.
2. Resist the urge to copy and paste the traditional paper form fields on the screen.
3. Instead, create clarifying and user-centered prompts to clearly solicit applicant info.
4. Take extra care to explain how some definitions — particularly around household composition — varies between programs.
5. Provide nudges, encouragement and context or clarification whenever possible.


### Application Design Checklist
- Phrase simple, short and direct questions and then provide clarifying context in visually distinct copy beneath the primary question.
- Include only a few prompts or questions per screen.
- Each screen should have a single, obvious, primary call to action.
- Organize questions around topics, not people: ask all questions about a given topic —  health, money, housing, etc. — collectively for all applicants or household members instead of going person-by-person.
- Don’t make people do math: avoid asking people to convert numbers they know (like their paycheck) into other formats (like their annual income).
- No dead ends: allow people to progress through the application even if they can’t answer a question.
- When asking about household size, always clarify that that applicant should include themselves. Patiently explain program-specific definitions of household composition.
- Tell people what answers they will need to verify with documentation later in the application.
- Let people know when certain things will help their case and when it’s ok if they don’t have exact numbers.


### Remember
People do not think of their lives in the ways these programs ask us to evaluate applicant eligibility.  It will be intimidating, confusing and dissuasive to applicants if we don’t  go out of our way to organize our digital service in the simplest and clearest possible manner.