---
play_number: 6
title: Communicate in clear, consistent and supportive language
---
## Copywriting that adds comfort and clarity will garner better outcomes and more satisfied clients.

Language is important. The way that we frame questions and guidance influences how people understand the content of our statements. In designing our digital services, we must remember that residents arrive with a wide range of reading skills, preconceived ideas, and familiarity with our programs. Across all channels, it is our responsibility to communicate with a consistent, clear and supportive tone that uses plain language to accommodate all applicants.

### Guidelines
1. Move towards communication with residents more frequently and less formally.
2. Avoid using technical or legal language except when absolutely necessary. 
3. Create a consistent, supportive tone that applies throughout the application and across all channels.
4. Don’t assume people will understand the basic questions, and provide context whenever possible.


### Application Design Checklist
- Use a warm and affirming written voice.
- Write in simple, clear and plain language in short, concise paragraphs.
- Use the applicant’s name in a conversational manner.
- Explain acronyms. While people some may be familiar with programs names and services, do not assume everyone understands acronyms and nuances of government programs.
- Ensure your error messages and form validations carry the same tone as the rest of your copywriting.

### Remember
There is strong incentive and pressure to have our applications read like the regulations and policy language. Residents have a very difficult time understanding this kind of language. If we do not make an intentional effort to simplify and clarify, we will very likely be collecting inaccurate information and turning away applicants who feel unable to engage with the content.