---
play_number: 7
title: Acknowledge sensitive subjects and explain hard questions
---

## Giving context when asking for information that may cause concern will help assuage fear and prevent dropoff.

In general, our E&E systems work to obtain as much information as possible about residents that are seeking benefits. As a result, we often ask people in hard positions that carry mistrust unfamiliar institutions to share sensitive and personal information. Show residents that we understand and appreciate this sensitivity and complexity. Work to assuage fears by acknowledging questions which may cause concern or uncertainty.

### Guidelines
1. Member(s) of the team have experience building popular, high-traffic digital services
2. Member(s) of the team have experience designing mobile and web applications
3. Member(s) of the team have experience using automated testing frameworks
4. Member(s) of the team have experience with modern development and operations (DevOps) techniques like continuous integration and continuous deployment
5. Member(s) of the team have experience securing digital services
6. A Federal contracting officer is on the internal team if a third party will be used for development work
7. A Federal budget officer is on the internal team or is a partner
8. The appropriate privacy, civil liberties, and/or legal advisor for the department or agency is a partner

### Application Design Checklist
- Add context and reassurance for questions which may cause alarm (immigration status, social security number, etc.). Explain why the question is being asked and how the answer helps their application.
- When asking about applicant(s) sex, clarify that it should be based on what’s on the applicant’s birth certificate.
- Life is messy it doesn’t always fit to form fields — let people to describe their circumstances in their own words. Whenever possible, allow people to provide additional context about their situation in free-form answers.

### Remember
People will fear things that may count against them and may be wary of questions that seem to put them at risk — immigration questions and social security numbers, in  particular. Applicants may not know the exact numerical information for questions regarding money, and will be inclined to pause their application if they fear entering “wrong” information will hurt them.  Being asked to input this information without context will dissuade many from completing their application.