---
play_number: 8
title: Give regular feedback to reflect progress and manage expectations
---

## Update applicants often as they complete tasks and prepare for those ahead

People seeking assistance often lead busy, complex lives and aren’t always familiar with what is involved in the enrollment process. Our intake applications should set expectations about the time, actions and materials people will need at every step of the process, and regularly provide feedback about progress, status and next steps.

### Checklist
1. Assume people do not know the steps of the process, or the documents they will need to provide.
2. Assume that people may not complete an application in one sitting, and that they may not 
3. return using the same device.
4. Ask for contact information early, and confirm contact information at the end of the application.
Recap progress and give positive feedback early and often.


### Key Questions
- At the start, set expectations: how much time will the application take to complete and what materials will the applicant need to provide.
- Create a visual progress tracker so the applicant knows generally where they are in the process.- Don’t be too granular (this will confuse and distract) -- create broad sections and let people know when they are moving from one to the other.
- At the end, set expectations again: what will happen next to their information, on what timeline, what action they need to take, what notices to look out for on what channels, etc. 
- Provide a feature to allow people to save their work and continue another time.
When collecting phone numbers and email addresses, send people confirmation messages right away to encourage engagement.
- Tell clients what number they should expect to receive calls from, so they can save the contact in their phone. Avoid calling from unknown numbers.

### Remember
People need be able to plan ahead and balance competing priorities. When we are uncertain about the investment required to complete a process, we become more likely to abandon it as a result. Helping people orient themselves is an easy way to improve resident journey and completion rates dramatically.

