---
play_number: 9
title: Simplify the experience by personalizing it
---

## Tailor the application experience using information provided by residents..

One of the biggest opportunities to simplify the eligibility process for residents is to tailor our questions  and content to their specific situation as we learn about it. Personalization begins with asking the easiest to understand and most comfortable questions first — such as name, contact information, a basic household information — and then using that information to shape the next set of questions we ask the applicant.  This approach, called “progressive disclosure” keeps the user from being asked questions unrelated to their case as well as creates a sense of familiarity to keep them engaged and moving through the application.

### Guidelines
1. Design for progressive disclosure — ask the simplest questions first, only show complexities when necessary and relevant.
2. Don’t make assumptions based on the required questions (aka: just because you need an address, doesn’t mean everyone has a *home* address)


### Application Design Checklist
- Break complex or nuanced questions into multiple, simple questions.
- Avoid asking questions that will not be relevant to residents, based on the information they have already provided. (For example: do not ask male-identified applicants about pregnancy, do not ask babies about their marital status, do not ask single applicants and homeless individuals about their “household”).
- Flag when the application might get more complicated based on specific patterns (eg: college students.
- Use data collected to personalize communication and give quick feedback loops (“You’re almost done, George!”).

### Remember
Longer, burdensome applications are more likely to leave people overwhelmed and unable to complete. Asking people duplicative or irrelevant questions makes people feel like their time is not being respected.
