---
play_number: 10
title: Help people regardless of eligibility
---

## Any person that invests significant time into determining their eligibility should get some value from using the service.

A significant percentage of people that apply for benefits will not be eligible to receive them.
Despite their ineligibility, their decision to apply reflects a level of need. To the extent possible, our services should acknowledge this need and serve as a referral source to community organizations, civic institutions, and other service providers that residents may benefit from. 


### Guidelines
1. Work to understand and improve how satisfied ineligible residents are with the process of determining ineligibility.
2. Remember that people need something more fundamental than your service — whether that be health, stability, or nutrition.
3. Keep it simple: even the knowledge that other services are available can improve the experience for residents.


### Application Design Checklist
- Apply the same principles of design, language and accessibility to the presentation of information about other resources or services.
- Don’t provide too much information — just what people need to decide whether to learn more, and a clear path to do so.
- In using data from a third-party (such as 2-1-1 or Aunt Bertha), ensure there is a process for validating and updating that data on a monthly or quarterly basis.


### Remember
Residents invest significant time and effort into determining their eligibility. To have even a neutral experience, they need to receive some value from the time invested. The experience residents have using our services shapes how they speak to others about it. Working to create a positive experience even for ineligible clients helps us improve how we are understood by the broader community, and reduces uncertainty and doubt among new applicants.